Everything about enjoy life forever is different.
From any other publication we've produced in the past, and from the start of the project
two things were critical, good communication and good documentation, but honestly time
and again the thing that proved to be the most important was Reliance on Jehovah.
The writing committee's goal was to create a first class digital experience that would
engage Bible students.
The digital design system had to be completely remodeled so that enjoy life forever would
look uniform, whether it's viewed in JW Library on JW.org or in print.
Right from the inception of this project, the brothers looked for inputs of a study material
would be easily available in as many languages as possible, and for that reason a team from
translation services worked along with the writers.
A publication of this size would usually take about two or three years to complete, but
the writing committee was really interested in getting the enjoy life forever book out
there as soon as possible.
Enjoy life forever book required an intense amount of collaboration.
Right from the beginning, the writing committee got all six departments together so we could
work unidely through their production.
Enjoy life forever has many elements.
Over 250 pages of text, 597 images, 121 video boxes, 840 links, and 62 QR codes.
Also the goal box must allow the student to add text and we had to build alternate layouts
for languages that have longer text and for languages that read right to the left.
Our existing tool set didn't have the ability to style digital publications like we can
with print.
We could do black text on a white background with gray boxes.
That was the extent of the functionality that we had available.
Enjoy life forever is very interactive for the student.
When producing the audio for this publication, we endeavored to maintain that feel.
So we added multiple voices, musical cues, and in some cases the audio track for the video
was re-edited to teach the point effectively.
When we got to lesson 32, we felt that it might be too complicated to build as a digital
experience, but that's when the collaboration really paid off.
It took every tool that we had and basically every track in order to build the digital
version of that lesson.
As we were working on the prototype, we would collaborate with the user experience group
to make sure that the look and feel of the digital addition was the same whether it was
on a large device or a small device.
The entire chart is a visual aid, so we wanted to be sure that all of our users, especially
those who are visually impaired, would be able to understand the teaching point.
This required us to build the chart so that screen readers could read the text and that
each picture would have a description for those who needed it.
Early in the concept stage, we understood that there would be about 200 videos in this publication
requiring thousands of hours of work.
Eight brand new videos of the remaining videos around 60 would need to be edited.
Just as the eight new videos were entering the production phase, COVID-19 hit, effectively
halting video production around the world.
This work stoppage continued until each branch could determine how they could film safely
and still meet the deadline only nine months away.
Due to the pandemic, photo sessions here at headquarters were completely stopped for
four months.
Now as things progressed, we were able to resume photography only adhering to strict protocols.
For example, we had a family photograph themselves while being directed by the art department
here.
So everything that a Bible study conductor has been trained to do, ask all the important
questions, develop love for Jehovah in their Bible students, show videos, it's all built
into the publication.
So would the concept work with actual Bible students?
To find out we did in-house testing, and then at the same time, we sent out the lessons
around the world to publishers, pioneers, missionaries, circuit overseers, and they used
the lessons with actual Bible students.
We tested every lesson of the book this way, and then the responses that we got back
were analyzed and we made further refinements.
We had hundreds of team meetings, and we felt Jehovah's Holy Spirit equipping all of us
after we opened the meeting with prayer.
When you collaborate, you get a better product, it's more direct, simpler, and easier to understand.
Also thinking ahead about potential transition problems and addressing them helped expedite
translation in hundreds of languages.
I saw firsthand how Jehovah uses his organization to give us what we need at the right time, even
with the pandemic.
The results showed me that Jehovah was in control of the project.
I feel that Jehovah helped us accomplish this job in a shorter amount of time and a
quality that would have been very difficult, even under normal circumstances.
How amazing is Jehovah?